(soft music)
Alright, in this video
we are going to look at the HTTP request methods.
So these are the verbs that we are going to be using
as we go forward and work with web development
and we are not going to see too many of them
as we do traditional Spring MVC using forms
and stuff like that. But as we move towards
doing restful API's we are going to see
a lot more involvement with the request methods.
Request methods are also known as verbs
and basically we are making a request at the server.
So we are saying, hey, I want to do whatever,
so it's a verb, it's an action request
to tell the server to do something.
The first one that we want to talk about is get.
Get is a request for a resource,
so you are saying I am going to get,
usually it starts off with an HTML file,
or you might want to get a javascript file or an image,
you are asking the server to provide you a specific resource
whether it's a binary image or a text HTML file.
So there's a variety of things that you can ask
the server for. And this is probably
the most popular request method
because get is what your browser's going to use
when you go out to a website.
Next method on the list is head.
Head is a lot like a get,
but it only asks for the meta information.
So if you remember the examples there,
we did have a payload body
so if we were saying get an HTML file,
we get all the header information that comes back,
but we wouldn't get that HTML file
if we use the head method.
Now we have a post which is used to post data to the server.
A very common use case is when you are on a form,
you click that button to submit the form.
It's an HTTP post that's happening in the background.
So, let's see, here it is.
Now put is a special request, encloses an entity
and gives it a URI and it says, put this at that URI,
and if whatever it's putting there is already there,
it expects the server to update it
and these are very, very easily confuses.
A lot of new developers get confused about this.
Easiest way to remember, post is a create request
and that post is probably going to create something
every time you post to it and there's some edge cases,
but typically that is what's happening there with a post
and then put is a create or update.
So you're going to have like a JSON body with a,
if you're doing a restful interface
and your going to put that JSON and in that case,
if it doesn't exist, it's going to get created,
but if it does exist, you're expecting
the server to update it.
Then we have delete is a request
to delete a specified resource.
Now, it's important to understand delete is a HTTP method
and people want to use it when you're doing a form,
if you want to delete something from a web form,
well the forms don't support, the HTML standard,
does not support delete, it's only going to support a get
or a post, so in this case, delete is not going to work.
This is something that you're going to be seeing in use
when you're doing restful interfaces, if you want to delete
something when you're doing a restful API,
this is the request method that you use.
Trace is going to echo what was received by the server.
So you are telling the server to say here is something
I want you to receive, send it back what you sent me,
and this is going to be happening when you want to see
if there is intermediate servers between you
and the target server that are going to modify it
and this is something that happens that if you are
in a corporation you are going to be going through proxy servers
and these servers are going to be taking
and handing your request off to the destination servers
through proxies and they can modify the request
so that's a way to see
if something's been changed along the way.
Options is a way to request the methods
that are supported for a specific URL on the server.
So you make an options request and the server
will respond back with what methods are supported.
Then we have connect and this is something
that is going to create a TCP tunnel
and a lot of times this is going to be used
where you are on a HTTPS unencrypted channel
and you are going through an unencrypted proxy
and this is something as a developer
I have never seen direct use for,
this is probably something that's going to be happening
in the network layer, under the covers,
and part of the HTTP protocol,
but something as developers we are not going to see.
Patch is going to apply partial modification
to the specified resource.
In development, I've only seen this used a handful of times,
so it's not something that's too common out there.
Now, we need to talk about safe methods.
Safe methods are considered safe to use
because they only fetch information
and do not cause changes on the servers.
So safe methods are get, head, options and trace.
Now it's important to say that they are expected
not to cause changes on the server.
So if you get a specific resource,
like you are asking for an HTML page
the server is expected return back the same thing every time.
Of course, unless it's like dynamic data
where it doesn't apply to that,
but typically if you are going to get a javascript file
it's expected to server back the same javascript file
and then like the others, you should
be getting the same response back.
Idempotent methods, idempotent is actually a word
and I actually had to look up to see how you say it.
I have read it a thousand times and I was preparing for this,
I'm like how do you say that word?
So it's idempotence.
That means a quality of an action such that repetitions
of that action have no further effect on the outcome
and we only have a couple, or actually we do have several.
Put and delete are both considered idempotent methods,
so you can put multiple times
and you can delete multiple times.
Remember the put is a creator update and a delete should,
if it's already been deleted,
it's not going to be deleting it again.
Now I want to point out that the safe methods,
get, head, trace and options, are also idempotent.
So, by default, because they are safe methods
they are not going to change anything,
but the put and delete do change things,
but they're expected to produce the same outcome every time,
so you can recall them multiple times
and the same thing's going to happen
and lastly, being truly idempotent
is not enforced by the protocol.
This is part of the standard and this is what we're saying,
we expect you to implement, but coders are coders,
they can write things badly and cause unexpected actions,
so that's important to know.
So that's what's expected to happen,
but reality can be different.
Now, non-idempotent methods.
A post is not idempotent.
So a lot of times multiple posts
are likely to create multiple resources.
I'm sure you've seen a website saying do not click twice
because you'll submit that multiple times
and cause unintended effects
and whenever I see a website doing that,
I actually get a little annoyed
because it's usually a junior developer
that doesn't know what they're doing
because there are ways to protect against that.
Here is a handy chart for you.
It compares out all the request methods
on the left hand side
and then across the top we have request body,
response body, is it safe,
is it idempotent, or is it cachable
and this is a handy grid
you can use for your reference going forward.
In the course notes, I'm going to leave
a PDF here for your download.
Next thing we need to review is HTTP status codes.
These are several series of codes
and the 100 series of codes are informational
and to be honest, I've never really seen a situation
where depending on a 100 series of codes.
200 series indicate a successful request.
300 series are redirections.
This is a case of the server capabilities of saying,
hey I have moved something, you need to go here,
and this is actually pretty common
because sometimes you move a page on a website
and you have other people that are dependent
on that page location and you get a 300 redirect to say,
hey, that resource you want is over here now
and this actually happens completely under the covers,
so if you're browsing to a site and it's a 300 redirect,
you don't even know it happened,
that's all network chatter under the covers
when you're using that application.
400 series are client errors and this means
you made a request and something was bad in your request
and the 500 series are server side errors.
This means something went bad on the server side
and when you're doing web development,
regardless of whether it's spring or something else,
you are going to see plenty of 400 and 500 errors,
but you want to be seeing the 200 errors,
or 200 response codes.
Now some common HTTP status codes
are 200 okay, 201 created, and 204 accepted.
This is where you have posted or did
some type of action to a server
and this is a request so you can do a get request
and you are going to get a 200 status back from it.
You might also get, if you are doing
a rest interface and you post something,
you are probably going to get a 200 or 201 back.
301 is a redirection,
so you are going to get a moved permanently,
but as part of that response you are going to get
where it's at, the new URL for it.
400 errors, 400 could be a bad request,
you have specified a media type
that the server doesn't accept, maybe a character encoding
that's not supported by the servers,
so you've done something bad in the request
and the server says I don't support
what you're asking for, basically,
and then 401 not authorized means that you're asking
for a protected resource and your client
has not gone through authorization for it.
Then we also have good old 404,
I'm sure everybody's seen a 404 error come back
and then the 500, a lot of times, especially in Spring
when you are doing development,
if you get an unexpected exception you will get
a 500 internal server error, that's pretty standard.
503, a lot of times you can see service unavailable
and that's going to be a lot of times
these are a temporary condition
like the server's overloaded or something like that.
There are a number of other HTTP status codes,
these are just a lot of common ones
I wanted to give you some examples of.
I'll leave a link in the course notes for you to see
the full suite of HTTP status codes.
Now for common, just regular web development,
we're not going to see the full suite of those,
but as you get into developing restful interfaces,
you will see a lot more status codes
that you're dealing with.